Document how Positron discovers available R installations (#21)
posit-dev/positron-website: interpreters.qmd

![Interpreter dropdown](images/tbid.png)

A list of other interpreter versions are shown; click the one you want.

> To learn more about the available R installations, see the [R discovery guide](r-installations.qmd).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are an R user, see the [R discovery guide](r-installations.qmd) for more information on available installations.
```

> If you are an R user, see the [R discovery guide](r-installations.qmd) for more information on available installations.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are an R user, see the [R discover](r-installations.qmd) guide for more information on available installations.
```

Author: I'm going to assume you still want it to read "discovery" and not "discover" (?).

    `%LOCALAPPDATA%/Programs/R` (typically resolves to
    `C:/Users/username/AppData/Local/Programs/R`)
  These locations are treated as so-called root folders, meaning we expect them
  to _contain_ 1 or more versions of R, not to actually _be_ an R installation.
* The `PATH`, in the sense of the R executable returned by `which R`
* Well-known paths to an R executable or to a symlink that resolves to an R executable, e.g.:
  - `/usr/bin/R`
  - `/usr/local/bin/R`
  - `/opt/local/bin/R`
  - `/opt/homebrew/bin/R`
* R installations recorded in the Windows registry, in keys such as:
  - `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\R-core\R64\X.Y.Z`
  - `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\R-core\R64\X.Y.Z`
  where `X.Y.Z` is a concrete R version, such as 4.4.2.
  - It's often possible to discover which of those R versions is considered
    the current version of R from the registry keys
    `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\SOFTWARE\R-core\R64\InstallPath` or
    `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\R-core\R64\InstallPath`.

If you have an R installation that won't be discovered by the search strategy described above, two settings are available to instruct Positron to look in additional locations:

> * [`positron.r.customRootFolders`](positron://settings/positron.r.customRootFolders): Suitable for R root folders that contain 1 or more R installations.

Author: Cool new use of my new understanding of some specialized URIs 😎 

These links should offer to open themselves in Positron, with immediate access to the associated setting.

Reviewer 2: Hey @jennybc - would these links only open in positron if the docs are being viewed in Positron?

Author: No, these links open in Positron if Positron can be found on the device from which the person is reading the docs. Here is the VS Code documentation on such links:

https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/command-line#_opening-vs-code-with-urls

> You can use the URL in applications such as browsers or file explorers that can parse and redirect the URL.

The links I've included here take the user to Positron and straight to the Settings Editor, focused on the settings we are documenting.

The downside is that these links don't (can't) open the Positron settings editor if the user is, say, on their phone.

  - Hypothetical example: `C:/nonstandardRLocation`
* [`positron.r.customBinaries`](positron://settings/positron.r.customBinaries): Suitable for specific R executables.
  - Hypothetical example: `C:/nonstandardRLocation/R-4.4.1/bin/x64/R.exe`

One way to navigate to these settings is to use the command palette to do *Preferences: Open Settings*.
Then go to *Extensions > R > Positron R Language Pack (advanced)*.

> Also note that Positron only supports R 4.2 and higher.

Author: Somehow this feels like it should appear much earlier in this page, yet this is the first time that it really comes up naturally 🤔

Reviewer: It is also on the "start" page: https://positron.posit.co/start.html#r-prerequisites

Author: Aha! OK then I feel better.

Older R versions might be discovered in the search described above, but they will be discarded.

### Python

*I put this here for parallelism, but do we actually have anything we want to say?*

> <https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/python/environments>

Author: What do we want to do about this? I think probably just link out to the URL above, but that still begs the question of some text.
